Tide - Japanese (soon)
======================

Introduction
============

Tide (Time-Indexed Data Entries) is a library for recording and playing
back data indexed along a single axis, typically time. It is not
described as "for storing and retrieving;" the library is optimised for
data streams, not data tables. It is particularly suited to applications
that must record one or more streams of data in such a way that the data
can be replayed at a later date, maintaining the timing information of
the data. A common application is recording data streams from a robot's
sensors and playing those streams back in real-time later on for testing
software.

Requirements
============

Tide uses the `CMake build system`_. You will need at least version
2.8 to be able to build the component.

.. _`CMake build system`:
   http://www.cmake.org/

Tide runs on Linux, Mac OS X and Windows.

Installation
============

Binary
------

No binary installers are currently available.

From source
-----------

Follow these steps to install Tide from source in any operating system:

- Download the source, either from the repository or a source archive,
  and extract it somewhere::

    tar -xvzf tide-1.0.0.tar.gz

- Change to the directory containing the extracted source::

    cd tide-1.0.0

- Create a directory called ``build``::

    mkdir build

- Change to that directory::

    cd build

- Run cmake or cmake-gui::

    cmake ../

- If no errors occurred, run make::

    make

- Finally, install the library. Ensure the necessary permissions to
  install into the chosen prefix are available::

    make install

- The install destination can be changed by executing ccmake and changing
  the variable ``CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX``::

    ccmake ../

The library is now ready to use. You can use it in your own CMake projects with
the following line::

  find_package(tide)

If you are not using CMake, a pkg-config file is available, ``tide.pc``.
Be sure to add the pkg-config location below the Tide install prefix to
the ``PKG_CONFIG_PATH`` environment variable. If you installed into
``/usr/local``, this will be::

  /usr/local/lib/pkgconfig

or::

  /usr/local/lib64/pkgconfig


Documentation
=============

Full API documentation is available with the library. It is generated
using Doxygen and Sphinx. If you installed from source, you must have
Doxygen and Sphinx installed and set ``BUILD_DOCUMENTATION`` to ``ON``
in CMake. The documentation is also `available online`_.

.. _`available online`:
   http://gbiggs.github.com/tide/


Examples
========

Simple usage examples are provided in the ``examples/`` directory of the
source. For more complex examples, see the sourcecode of the tools
included with Tide.


Tools
=====

Tide includes several useful tools. These tools are designed to
introspect and manipulate Tide objects.


Changelog
=========

1.0
---

- Initial release.


License
=======

This software is developed at the National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and Technology. Approval number H23PRO-????. This
software is licensed under the Lesser General Public License. See
COPYING.LESSER.

